Cassady Gappmayer
Final Project Idea
1. Describe your idea for a data analysis final project.
I want to create wordclouds that contain words that are commonly found accompanying a chosen word. I would like to do this using the same word in different languages so that I can compare the context of words across languages.

2. Describe the sort of data you will use, potential sources, and what the data might look like.
I found out Dr. Mark Davies was a professor of linguistics at BYU who made a bunch of corpora, which, from what I understand, are giant word banks. He has a corpus for modern English, Spanish, and Portuguese. 
https://www.mark-davies.org - if you want to look at the corpora yourself
I’ve been playing around with them. I am not sure exactly how to use them for this project, but I think they could work. There was a magazine article I looked through where someone made a little graphic using two of his English corpora from different time periods showing what words were used in connection with the word ‘women’:
https://magazine.byu.edu/article/big-lang-at-byu/
I thought this was interesting, and I think I could do something like it with the three different languages he has corpora for. It would give some insight into the context of a word within cultures that speak each of the languages.

3. (If you already have data, skip this task) Create fake data that simulates what your final project data set might look like. Preferrably a csv file.
I don’t think I will need any additional data for the project, but I will have to figure out how to put it in a manageable form. I made a simple csv file. The nice thing is that the neighboring words (collocates) are already identified and designated a number showing how frequently each word appears within 4 words of the word I search. They are also organized into nouns, adverbs, and adjectives. Words such as “a”, “the”, “be”, “to” - that don’t really mean anything are filtered out.

4. Generate a plot (using ggplot) using your real or fake data showing at least one expected result.
*Sorry it looks funky. I still don’t understand out how to put the columns in descending order.
The plot shows 15 of the most common neighboring words for the word ‘family’ in English and how frequently each word is within 4 words of the word ‘family’.
If I made a wordcloud, the words that appear more frequently would be bigger. I would also have to make it so viewers can see the English, Spanish, and Portuguese versions in a way that they can compare them. I would also have to translate all the words to English which might be tricky. If the language idea doesn’t work out, I could compare English in the past to current English like the pink graphic above.
